In America, alcoholic beverages must be radioactive so they can be legally consumed.
Sounds stupid, appearing in such lists as:
"Fourteen special things you'll never believe,"
for which, for some reason, resources are never given.
But this is really true. To find out why,
we need to use some knowledge of chemistry.
Earth is constantly bombarded with cosmic rays
and radiation with incredibly great energy coming from space.
Our atmosphere almost completely protects us,
but this "almost" causes strange chemical reactions.
When the cosmic ray is hit by nitrogen,
there will be something called carbon 14,
which is a heavy and somewhat unstable carbon isotope.
This isotope is constantly produced high in the atmosphere.
And when it is established, the half-life is several thousand years old.
Then it falls back to the nitrogen. So at any moment
there is a very small part of the carbon in the world,
about one billion, made up of this radioactive version.
The exact number varies, which depends on many things,
which also include whether we launch atomic bombs. But the conclusion is:
Part of the carbon on Earth is radioactive.
And anything that is organic and alive exchanges carbon with the surrounding environment.
Plants take nutrients from the soil,
herbivores eat plants,
carnivores eat herbivores who eat plants.
So carbon in any living organism,
including you and me, is constantly changing.
A small part of this exchange is the radioactive isotope of carbon.
But when an organism dies, it stops exchanging carbon with its surroundings.
No new carbon comes and no old one leaves.
And so a small amount of radioactive carbon in the dead bodies begins to fall into nitrogen.
Slow, very slow. But thanks to this, the radiocarbon method of age determination works.
Because we know that the half-life of this isotope is about six thousand years,
we can remove from a sample and
to determine the amount of this isotope. And if it has half the amount we would expect in today's living organism,
we can say that it had to stop changing the carbon,
that it had to die, about six thousand years ago.
And yes, in fact, it's much more complicated than I described.
So complicated that someone won the Nobel Prize.
But this is a video on YouTube and not a course of forensic science, so that's enough.
Good. Keep this still in your head.
Because alcohol intended for consumption is distilled from plants.
In America, this is the only legal way.
But it is also possible to produce alcohol from oil,
what was drilled from the ground.
You can not sell this alcohol in America, it's forbidden.
You can only drink something that has been made from recently dead plants.
But you can not drink what was made of long dead plants and, like, a random dinosaur.
Of things that have been transformed into oil in millions of years of underground pressure.
Although alcohol from plants and alcohol from oil is chemically the same substance.
The only difference between them is the amount of radioactive carbon.
When alcohol is distilled from plants, it is still present.
The resulting fluid will be a little radioactive.
Just as you are radioactive, me and the plants you come from.
Distilled alcohol from oil, which has long been underground,
where it has been protected from cosmic rays for many millions of years,
contains almost no radioactive carbon.
When you test this alcohol and it will not be radioactive,
it is clear that it had to be made of oil.
Alcohol, the right alcohol, must be radioactive.
Cheers!
Like, it's water. This is, of course, water.
If I did this for the fifth time, I'd be rolling under the table.
Translation: minihry36